--- 
layout: post 
title: 10000 to Master 
date: '2021-11-08  9:00:01.62 -0400' 
--- 
Something I have always thought about is the concept that it takes 10,000 of something to master it. Whether 
that is hours or speaking a foreign language, or hammering nails, or writing, or whatever, doing it 10,000 
seems to be the universal mark of becoming a master at something. 

I think that the main part of this is breaking down the huge number (10,000 in this case) to smaller numbers, 
like 1. I wanted to apply this to shooting, where shooting 10,000 rounds would make one a master at the 
particular gun. How do you do it? Do you just take a hundred rounds with you every time you go to the range? Or 
do you do it two rounds at a time after doing a holster draw? That is the real question here.

Since I am able to shoot in my backyard for the most part, the first part of this would be easier for me. I had 
considered trying to do it with a .45acp pistol, but those rounds are still fairly pricey ($0.50+/round). So 
what about .22? Those are around $0.14/round, so much more affordable. Even at that, do I do 100 rounds per day 
for 100 days? Or 50 rounds a day for 200? Or break it up over a year? Do I just shoot at the targets, reload, 
and repeat? These are the questions I have to ask myself I guess. 

I did want to practice holster drawing and stuff, so that is a possibility. Load up 10 rounds and do 5 draws 
with two shots on target each. 

Can't defend yourself if you can't hit what you are shooting at. Hopefully, I will never have to put that info 
practice. 
