--- 
layout: post 
title: Optimism 
date: '2021-11-18  7:56:17.98 -0400' 
--- 
It's funny how some things provoke such optimsm that one thinks that they can actually do the things they want 
to 
do. Like seeing a game that you had a similar idea for, but these people twisted it just enough that in your own 
mind it becomes an achievable goal. Or when you have been pecking at something for a long time and all of the 
sudden you find the right command switch and the shit actually works, albeit with some caveats differing from 
what you originally intended. 

I came across this game on Steam called [Melvor Idle](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1267910/Melvor_Idle/) 
which takes all of the stuff in RuneScape and breaks it down into just a bunch on menus and the raw data. A 
really interesting concept that I think could be applied to COTW. Instead of working out dungeon generation, for 
example, it could just be a "move" button or even ordinal directions that the player would move. Each square 
would have a random chance at an event happening. Things like nothing (obviously), see something to one 
direction, a monster, a chest, an item, stairs, whatever, could all be tuned to happen in a relatively balanced 
frequency. 

Best of all is that it wouldb't be limited to just a C#/.NET/Native program; I could do this in RoR, PHP, or 
whatever other language I fancied at the time. Even in that thought it could help me expand my programming 
ability because if I already have the code in one language, it could be fun to "port" it to another one. 

Lots of possibilities here!
